  Ogho Okiti | Tuesday, 17 April 2018  11:07pm  | business Today BetaSMS, a Lagos-based mobile marketing agency, unveiled a set of industry-leading business-oriented applications, including WasherMEN and iPrefect. The applications are designed to increase the productivity of business owners – giving them more control, encourage lean operations, reduce overhead costs and generate more profit to keep them in business. The use of applicationsto run businesses is the gateway to automating workflows and reducing workforce in areas such as sales and marketing - sending SMS reminders, developing and sendingmarketing campaigns targeted at new and existing customers, attending to customers’ complaints etc. WasherMEN is a laundry management software designed with the one-man business model in mind but has the capacity to handle both commercial and industrial laundry activities. WasherMEN works as an administrative tool that has features like auto sending of SMS for laundry collections, delivery, invoicing, inventory management and reporting. The application provides the required flexibility and makes it easy for a single person to seamlessly run a laundromat until the business is ready to scale; as the front-end of the business can be implemented through hand-held devices – smartphone and tablet – and any computer device from any location. With the app, one person can easily attend to 20 customers in one day. “WasherMEN was built after we noticed an increased number of Laundry Startups had become increasingly dependent on SMS to notify customers for pickup of their clothes. We decided to create more value for such by building the application to ensure smooth running of their businesses” said the Managing Director of BetaSMS, Ajibola Awojobi.” As unemployment rate continues to grow, the unemployed and underemployed population look for ways to make ends meet. WasherMEN presents a unique opportunity for this population to be gainfully employed and have a lean start-up that can be financed by their personal savings or support from family and friends; both genders can own a laundromat business. Kolade Adegoke, Sales and Marketing Director of BetaSMSstated that “First rule of business is to maximise your profit while minimizing your overhead costs, the WasherMEN application will look to eliminate costs such as salaries and increase the sustainability of the business owners.“ iPrefect, the latest and most complete school automation software built for every educational institute– colleges, universities, training schools etc –, aims to improve management’s understanding and interaction with students all through their duration in the school while reducing the workforce needed to achieve same. The solution will enable education institutions to perform all activities in the cloud. Having cloud-based Student Information System with no local premise footprint of server or software means less time and money spent on IT and more time is devoted to broader education priorities. This powerful solution offers features such as Cloud enabled student information system, student behaviour tracking and analytics, profile management, campus recruitment, communication & social features, admission management, account management, laboratory management, transport management, hostel management etc. Student behaviour tracking and analytics, and student profile management,for instance, are strong value propositions for all business owners running any learning institute. As machine learning algorithms advance and data set grows, the behaviour tracking and analytics feature not only notifies the school of any anomaly in the student’s behaviour but also tracks occurrence and events as well as suggest immediate corrective measures to help nip in the bud any unsavoury behaviour. “We decided to create this solution because of the incessant complaints of missing students’ files and records as well as difficulty in tracking students’ performances and behaviour. This solution will help keep records for various institutions, simplify the enquiry processes and help instil discipline amongst students” said Adebimpe Ayoola, Head of Communications. In addition to tracking students’ behaviour, this application will also help to build business owners’ confidence in the quality of students’ performances and enable them to use these testimonials as a marketing tool to attract more parents to enrol students in the school. These applications - WasherMEN and iPrefect - are solutions that will enable business owners keep an eye on all their ventures regardless of their location. The two applications, which are readily available will run on a subscription basis at a cheap price, can be boarded to their BetaSMS dashboard on request within few hours. About BetaSMS BetaSMS, established in 2009, is an experienced mobile marketing agency based in Nigeria and serving over 30,000 subscribers locally and internationally. The company is a trusted SMS partner to its valued clients providing exceptional delivery rate and an unbeatable customer support. BetaSMS offers a full range of mobile marketing services including Bulk SMS messaging, Voice SMS/Robocalls, email marketing and app development. Media contacts Adegoke Kolade 0703 445 5709 info@betasms.com