 As State’s NUT begins strike action Stella Mbah | Monday, 08 January 2018  3:03pm  | news Kaduna State Government has warned that it will not tolerate the 
illegal indefinite strike action by the state’s branch of the Nigeria 
Union of Teachers (NUT) saying that any teacher that partakes in the 
strike action will be dealt with accordingly including possible 
dismissal from service. The warning was issued by the Governor of the state Nasir El-Rufai. 
He described the action as illegal and will not achieve its aim of 
derailing the education reforms being implemented by the government. “The Kaduna State Government wishes to inform the public that it has 
instructed its Education administrators to open registers in all its 
schools, starting from Monday, 8th January 2018.
 Any teacher that is absent from work will be treated with the 
consequences that pertain to absconding from duty under the Public 
Service Rules.” “There can be no doubt that KDSG will take firm and decisive 
disciplinary action against personnel who absent themselves from duty, 
including dismissal from service”. Recall that the government of Kaduna state came under fire last year 
following its decision to sack nearly 22,000 teachers which it said were
 unqualified and incompetent for the job. The Governor who feels that the strike action is the union’s way of 
frustrating his administration said that the State Government will not 
be blackmailed into knowingly retaining unqualified teachers neither 
would it mortgage the future of two million primary school pupils 
because failed teachers are shamelessly mobilizing sentiment. However, the Kaduna state branch of the NUT said that the strike 
action became pertinent following the state government’s issuance of 
sack letters to the affected teachers despite a court order served by 
the National Industrial Court, Kaduna on Dec. 4, 2017 restraining the 
state government from disengaging any teacher pending the determination 
of the case. Other justification for the strike according to the union includes, 
compulsory retirement of secondary school teachers before their due date
 as against the 35 years of service or 60 years of age provided by civil
 service rules, non-payment of 2015 leave transport grant to 3,338 
primary school teachers, as well as 2016 and 2017 leave transport grant 
to all public school teachers despite deductions at source, amongst 
others.